Add tutorial for Catalyst and Julia for users inexperienced with Julia (#565)
SciML/Catalyst.jl: docs/src/catalyst_for_new_julia_users/intro_to_catalyst.md

# Introduction to Catalyst and Julia for new Julia users

> The Catalyst tool for the modelling of chemical reaction networks is based in the Julia programming language. While experience in Julia programming is advantageous for using Catalyst, it is not necessary for accessing some of its basic features. This tutorial serves as an introduction to Catalyst for those unfamiliar with Julia, also introducing some basic Julia concepts. Anyone who plans on using Catalyst extensively is recommended to familiarise oneself more thoroughly with the Julia programming language, e.g. by reading [its documentation](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/).  

Author: Yes, that one should be linked.

Julia can be downloaded [here](https://julialang.org/downloads/).

### Basic Julia usage
On the surface, Julia got many similarities to languages like MATLAB, Python, and R. 

*Values* can be assigned to *variables* through the use of a `=` sign. Values (possibly stored in variables) can be used for most basic computations.
```julia
length = 2.0
width = 4.0
area = length*width
```

> *Functions* takes some input (enclosed by `()`) and returns some output. E.g. the `min` function returns the minimum of two values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Functions* take one or more inputs (enclosed by `()`) and return some output. E.g. the `min` function returns the minimum of two values
```

```julia
min(1.0,3.0)
```

A line of Julia code is not required to end with `;`, however, if it does, the output of that line is not displayed.
```julia
min(1.0,3.0);
```

Each Julia variable has a specific *type*, designating what type of value it is. While not directly required to use Catalyst, this is useful to be aware of. To learn the type of a specific variable, use the `typeof` function. More information about types can be [found here](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/types/).
```julia
typeof(1.0)
```

Here, `Float64` denotes decimal-valued numbers. Integer-valued numbers instead are of the `Int64` type.
```julia
typeof(1)
```

Finally, we note that the first time some code is run in Julia, it has to be *compiled*. However, this is only required once per Julia session. Hence, the second time the same code is run, it runs much faster. E.g. try running this line of code first one time, and then one additional time. You will note that the second run is much faster.
```julia

> (245^0.43) + exp(0.431) - log(124541) * tan(1.43) - sin(4.3);

Reviewer: This is pretty instantaneous for me on 1.8.2 even with compilation. Maybe there is another example that has a more clear pause you could use?

Author: I was going to do something with big matrix multiplication, but I also wanted something where it was clear to the user what code was being run. I will have a think over the day, might do matrix multiplication, but point out that that is what is happening.

```

> This is useful to know when you e.g. declare, simulate, or plot, a Catalyst model. The first time you run the command there might be a slight delay. Howegver, the second run will execute much quicker. This holds even if you do minor adjustments before the second run (such as changing simulation initial conditions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful to know when you e.g. declare, simulate, or plot, a Catalyst model. The first time you run a command there might be a slight delay. However, subsequent runs will execute much quicker. This holds even if you do minor adjustments before the second run (such as changing simulation initial conditions).
```

Catalyst models are created through the `@reaction_network` *macro*. For more information on macros, please read [the Julia documentation on macros](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/metaprogramming/#man-macros). This documentation is, however, rather advanced (and not required to use Catalyst). We instead recommend that you simply familiarise yourself with the Catalyst syntax, without studying in detail how macros work and what they are.

The `@reaction_network` command is followed by the `begin` keyword, which is followed by one line for each *reaction* of the model. Each reaction consists of a *reaction rate*, followed by the reaction itself. The reaction itself contains a set of *substrates* and a set of *products* (what is consumed and produced by the reaction, respectively). These are separated by a `-->` arrow. Finally, the model ends with the `end` keyword, followed by a list of its *parameters*.

Here, we create a simple *birth-death* model, where a single species (*X*) is created at rate *b*, and degraded at rate *d*. The model is stored in the variable `rn`.

```julia
rn = @reaction_network begin
    b, 0 --> X
    d, X --> 0

> end b d;

Reviewer: Drop the `;` to show the output?

Author: For some reason I got an error when I tried to display the network on my machine, so added this one here. Generally, I had several `;` to avoid clogging up the docs. But adding this one back in makes sense, and maybe I should do that for more blocks.

```

For more information on how to use the Catalyst model creator, please read [the corresponding documentation](https://docs.sciml.ai/Catalyst/stable/tutorials/dsl/).

Next, we wish to simulate our model. To do this, we need to provide some additional information to the simulator. This is

> * The initial condition. That is the concentration of each species at the start of the simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The initial condition. That is the concentration or number of each species at the start of the simulation.
```

> * The timespan. That is, over the timeframe over which we wish to run the simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The timespan. That is, the timeframe over which we wish to run the simulation.
```

* The parameter values. That is, the values of the model's parameters for this simulation.

> The initial condition is given as a *Vector*. This is a type which combines several different values. When declared, the values are contained by `[]`, and separated by `,`. Since we only have one species, the vector holds a single element. In this element, we set the value of *X* using the `:X => 1.0` syntax. Here, we first denote the name of the species, with a `:` pre-appended. Next follows `=>` and then the value of *X*. Since we wish to simulate the *concentration* of X over time, we will let the initial condition be decimal valued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial condition is given as a *Vector*. This is a type which collects several different values. To declare a vector, the values are specific within brackets, `[]`, and separated by `,`. Since we only have one species, the vector holds a single element. In this element, we set the value of *X* using the `:X => 1.0` syntax. Here, we first denote the name of the species, with a `:` pre-appended. Next follows `=>` and then the value of *X*. Since we wish to simulate the *concentration* of X over time, we will let the initial condition be decimal valued.
```

```julia
params = [:b => 1.0, :d => 0.2];
```

Please read here for more information on [Vectors](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/arrays/) and [Tuples](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/types/#Tuple-Types).

Next, before we can simulate our model, we bundle all the required information together in a so-called `ODEProblem`. Note that the order in which the input (the model, the initial condition, the timespan, and the parameter values) is provided to the ODEProblem matters. E.g. the parameter values cannot be provided as the first argument, but have to be the last argument. Here, we save our `ODEProblem` in the `oprob` variable.

```julia
oprob = ODEProblem(rn,u0,tspan,params);
```

We can now simulate our model. We do this by providing the `ODEProblem` to the `solve` function. We save the output to the `sol` variable.
```julia
sol = solve(oprob);
```

Finally, we can plot the solution through the `plot` function.
```julia
plot(sol)
```

> Here, the plot described the time evolution of the concentration of the species *X*, from its initial condition. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the plot shows the time evolution of the concentration of the species *X* from its initial condition. 
```

> For more information about the numerical simulation package, please see the [DifferentialEquation documentation](https://diffeq.sciml.ai/stable/). For more information about the plotting package, please see the [Plots documentation](https://docs.juliaplots.org/stable/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the numerical simulation package, please see the [DifferentialEquation documentation](https://docs.sciml.ai/DiffEqDocs/stable/). For more information about the plotting package, please see the [Plots documentation](https://docs.juliaplots.org/stable/). 
```

Remember, unless we have restarted Julia, we do not need to activate our packages (through the `using` command) again.

This time, we will declare the so-called [SIR model for an infectious disease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compartmental_models_in_epidemiology#The_SIR_model). Note that even if this model does not describe a set of chemical reactions, it can be modelled using the same dynamics. The model consists of 3 species:
* *S*, the amount of *susceptible* individuals.
* *I*, the amount of *infected* individuals.
* *R*, the amount of *recovered* (or *removed*) individuals.
It also has 2 reaction events:
* Infection, where a susceptible individual meets an infected individual, and also becomes infected.
* Recovery, where an infected individual recovers.
Each reaction is also associated with a specific rate (corresponding to a parameter).
* *b*, the infection rate.
* *k*, the recovery rate.

We declare the model using the `reaction_network` macro, and store it in the `sir_model` variable.
```julia
sir_model = @reaction_network begin
    b, S + I --> 2I
    k, I --> R 
end b k;
```

> Here we note that the first reaction contains two different substrates (separated by a `+` sign). While there is only a single product (*I*), two copies of *I* are produced. The *2* in front of the product *I* denotes this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the first reaction contains two different substrates (separated by a `+` sign). While there is only a single product (*I*), two copies of *I* are produced. The *2* in front of the product *I* denotes this.
```

Next, we declare our initial condition, time span, and parameter values. Since we want to simulate the individual reaction events, that discretely change the state of our model, we want our initial conditions to be integer-valued. We will start with a mostly susceptible population, but where a single individual has been infected through some means.
```julia
u0 = [:S => 50, :I => 1, :R => 0.0]
tspan = (0.0,10.0)
params = [:b => .2, :k => 1.0];
```

Previously we have bundled this information into an `ODEProblem` (denoting a deterministic *ordinary differential equation*). Now we wish to simulate our model as a jump process (where each reaction event denotes a single jump in the state of the system). We do this by first creating a `DiscreteProblem`, and then using this as an input to a `JumpProblem`.
```julia
dprob = DiscreteProblem(sir_model,u0,tspan,params)
jprob = JumpProblem(sir_model,dprob,Direct());
```

> Again, the order in which the inputs are given to the `DiscreteProblem` and the `JumpProblem` is important. The last argument to the `JumpProblem` (`Direct()`) denotes which simulation method we wish to use. For now, we recommend the user simply use the `Direct()` option, and then consider alternative ones when they are more familiar with modelling in Catalyst and Julia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, the order in which the inputs are given to the `DiscreteProblem` and the `JumpProblem` is important. The last argument to the `JumpProblem` (`Direct()`) denotes which simulation method we wish to use. For now, we recommend the user simply use the `Direct()` option, and then consider alternative ones, see the [JumpProcesses.jl docs](https://docs.sciml.ai/JumpProcesses/stable/), when they are more familiar with modelling in Catalyst and Julia.
```

> Finally, we can simulate our model using the `solve` function, and plot the solution using the `plot` function. Here, the `solve` function also has a second argument (`SSAStepper()`). This is a stepping algorithm. Again we recommend that you at this stage simply use this option, and then explore further exactly what this means at a later stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we can simulate our model using the `solve` function, and plot the solution using the `plot` function. Here, the `solve` function also has a second argument (`SSAStepper()`). This is a time stepping algorithm that calls the `Direct` solver to advance a simulation. Again, we recommend at this stage you simply use this option, and then explore further exactly what this means at a later stage.
```
